Herger is a about giveaways also known as sweepstakes right now generally speaking I think there are
three types of giveaways that you can run on Instagram or at least I've seen that have been successful.
These are not by any means a comprehensive list.
There's other ways you can do it.
But generally speaking fall into three different categories.
Number one stuff.
Number two intangible stuff like shout outs and number three promotional stuff.
Now explain the first one.
Giving away stuff.
Well it's pretty straight forward.
You can give away something that your audience potentially wants.
You're a fashion brand.
Maybe you give away makeup maybe you give away a bag maybe you give away something that you personally
like or have an affinity for.
If you're in tack maybe you buy something that you covered and give that away.
That's something that we add innovations Asian will probably do in the future.
Pick something that's under a certain price tag and give that away assuming that the post when we covered
it was actually interesting.
That's pretty much the simplest way you can get with it.
I think that you can also give away cash which I call this stuff but it's not nearly as useful.
You don't get the same participation.
Remember if you give away say an Amazon echo like we did the people who are going be interested in that
are going to be people who like technology.
If you're a technology account you'd benefit from that.
You just give away 50 bucks that people are going to interested in.
Are everybody and not just people who are interested in tax you have a lot of people have no interest
in tax.
And those are kind of worthless followers.
Those are the types of people that add to your follower account but they don't like your posts therefore
they lower your engagement rate which makes Instagram think that you have a low quality following.
Now you always have to have a mind towards making this sustainable one time.
Giveaways are not particularly successful.
Generally speaking accounts do giveaways frequently and get a lot of traction and attention for them
are ones that do it repeatedly on a consistent schedule.
That being said you have to make sure that whatever you're giving away is sustainable and worth it.
And that brings me to number two which is intangible stuff.
Generally speaking if you give away something that doesn't have a monetary value that's a great deal.
Even if you don't have people that are interested in it save versus traditional actual material stuff
it didn't cost you anything.
So you can use this strategy as often as you want.
I'll give you an example.
Some larger accounts will give away shout outs.
Now what they'll say is first person to do whatever or or tag a friend to get entered to do this or
like this photo or reposes photo in order to be entered to win and they get a shout out now that appeals
obviously to people who want to grow their account followings which there are a lot of people out there
who are really interested in growing their total follower account.
Now if you're a big enough account that's actually something that might be worth that tiny little bit
of effort to do whatever it is you ask them to do and for you shouting out to them does nothing.
I mean honestly it's not hard at all.
It's really easy to just throw up a story you can write it in text mode on Instagram and just go and
tag them really quickly and that's it.
It's not something that's detrimental to your account in any way because you're actually promoting your
fans which is what people actually like to see as long as you don't take it too far.
But there are other ways you can do this.
If you're a software company give away a free account to your software.
Right.
All the unit cost of that one account are really nothing.
So you give those away all day long.
You're an author.
Why not give away a free e-book to your book or you know even more specifically you get a signed version
of your book or something like that with a value that you're adding isn't necessarily the dollar value.
So that's number two.
The intangible stuff and that leads me to number three which I think are the all time best possible
giveaway you can do which is sponsored stuff now sponsored stuff.
Basically what you're doing is you're asking another company or account to give you something for free.
You can give away.
This is incredibly common.
The bit of it here obviously is that you get to give away something that could be very valuable to your
following and you don't have to pay for it.
That's the great part about it.
Oftentimes what you can do is if you are someone who does promotional deals like in the previous sections
where we talked about ways to make money on Instagram if you can't for some reason get someone to buy
a shout out or you can agree on terms.
Oftentimes you can just say why don't we do a giveaway for whatever it is the item that you're trying
to sell right now innovation station by negotiating with their account called my swag.
And originally they agreed to pay $150 for a post.
Now I realize that they're actually making a technology that could be interesting so maybe I'll just
ask them to give me one other square.
And I'll give that away.
So it's kind of a dual benefit.
I get to reward my followers and they get essentially very cheap promotion for their account I guarantee
their swag is not more than $50.
Now generally speaking with giveaways you still have to follow a very rigid set of rules attached and
the resources will link you to where and Instagram says there are guidelines for how to run giveaways
it's a little tricky sometimes you have to make sure that you are very well-defined about your rules
to enter when it starts when it ends when they're going to get the prize if they win.
How are they going to know if they've won.
Like usual you always have to be prepared for people that no matter what will complain there's always
people who complain about lotteries being rigged and sweepstakes and giveaways very similar so they're
you know they're not immune to this type of complaint.
We did a giveaway with an evasion station.
I still have people complaining because they thought that they qualify better.
Right.
The rules were that you had to answer a riddle and you had to do it first.
And it was pretty funny because two or three people thought they answered first but they weren't even
close.
They were like number six or seven.
All they had to do is scroll up.
So don't underestimate the density of your followers.
All right guys that's pretty much it for giveaways.
Do you want to do this.
Try to go towards the higher R-N.Y side of this.
Personally I love sponsored giveaways.
There are a win win for everybody that is take a little bit of time to actually set up and then if you
can't do that trying to give away something intangible You can shout out if you're a large enough account.
Work out really well and then pass that if you want to you can give away stuff to make sure that you
don't have to do it consistently which means that whatever you're giving away needs to be within your
budget to be something that's sustainable that you can do consistently.
Also keep in mind just in general give away and you need to do these repeatedly before you actually
get a set group of people that routinely show up routinely give you engagement and comments that allow
you to then get more attention to your account which is ultimately what we're trying to do at the end
of the day.
Next year I'll show you the nitty gritty of one of the giveaways that we did and then we'll wrap up
this action.
All right.
See you then.